# 5 Message order

By default, Kafka does not ensure message orders at all. For example, if we have five messages m1,m2,m3,m4,m5, m1 send 
with success, m2 failed, but 2nd retry is success. During the retry time of m2, m3,m4 is already arrived. So the final 
order in the consumer will be m1,m3,m4,m2,m5.

And this can happen inside a partition of a topic. It can also happen for the global message order inside a topic.

## 5.1 Ensure message order inside one partition. 

To ensure message order inside one partition, kafka provide a config **max.in.flight.requests.per.connection**.

It specifies how many messages the producer can send before receiving a response from the broker. Note as the producer
will send the message first to the batch buffer memory, so if this number is high, the producer will consume more memory.
The high number will also increase producer throughput, because producer can cache more memory. 

### Before kafka 1.x

To ensure message order inside a partition, we need to set this number 1. So if one message is failed, during retry no
other message will be sent. 

### After kafka 1.x

If you disable the Idempotent, you still need to set **max.in.flight.requests.per.connection = 1**.


#### New Idempotent mechanism
As there is a new **Idempotent mechanism** implemented in kafka broker. If you enable it, it can ensure the message 
order inside one partition if **max.in.flight.requests.per.connection <= 5**. 

The internal of the new **Idempotent mechanism** is that each partition has a cache which can cache up to 5 message. 
Note the cached messages are stored in memory. The idempotent mechanism changes the behavior of producer,
producer adds metadata **<producerId, partitionNumber, sequenceId>** to each message. 

For the cached 5 message, it can use the metadata to sort and restore the sending order. Because the sequenceId is
unique and auto increment. For each producer, each partition, we can use sequenceId to restore order.

For example, if we have five messages m1,m2,m3,m4,m5, m1 send with success, m2 failed, but 2nd retry is success. 
During the retry time of m2, m3,m4 is already arrived. So the order in the cache will be m1,m3,m4,m2,m5. Suppose the five
message are all have producerId=1,partitionNumber=1, so metadata for m1 is (1,1,0), m2 (1,1,1), etc.

Inside the cache the broker sees m2 has smaller sequenceId than m3,m4. so it will put m2 before m3,m4.

## 5.2 Ensure global message order inside a topic

But it can't ensure the global message order inside a topic.


To avoid this, w 
